Phil Esterhaus passed away this morning.
NARRATOR:
Previously on Hill Street Blues...
Leo, I got a couple of enterprising
young TV thieves here for you.
About those two misguided youths.
Maybe we can do some business here.
I have to make myself
understand why it happened.
If he had bashed my face in
or slashed my throat,
would that make you feel better?
Would that help you understand?
Me, take the sergeant's place?
I recommended you.
To the sarge.
We loved him. We gonna miss him.
God bless him.
Item six, February thaw.
Anticipating a bump in sidewalk crime.
Mick Belker goes undercover this a.m.
at Rosswall and 113th.
Pilsky and Peyser as backup.
This is the action corner
for three-card Monte scams
and a group of pickpockets
known as the Funk Family Robinson
whose shill is breakdancing.
Item seven,
scorecard on Judge Cruz's court order
easing overcrowding
at the Michigan Avenue facility
at the 24-hour mark.
Of 247 inmates released OR,
18 have been re-arrested on fresh charges,
30 more missed their court dates yesterday
and are subject to arrest
on bench warrants.
Great idea, Judge.
Item eight, our ring of truck hijackers
continues to elude capture
and the Zucchini Bandit
is still circulating.
Male, white, heavy set,
early 30s, balding.
Six reports in the last few days
with two of the victims
reporting that what passed
for a concealed gun
turned out to be a squash
tossed in their puss when the robbery
had been completed.
-Let's nail him.
-Let's bread him.
Babs, would you tell the Captain
we're almost through?
Item nine, during the last toll period,
this precinct shows 213 calls
to the prerecorded message known
as Dial a Nymph.
Please, desist from wasting more
city money on such X-rated calls.
Item ten, Captain tells me that
funeral arrangements
for Sergeant Esterhaus is still pending.
You'll be kept apprised.
Uh, Lieutenant,
is there a family we can write to?
Is there someplace
we can send our condolences?
Apparently not. I guess we're
the only family the sergeant had.
Captain has a final item for you.
-Morning, folks.
-Morning, Captain.
Among Sergeant Esterhaus' effects,
was this letter addressed
to the peace officers
of the Hill Street day shift.
"Perhaps you thought you'd heard
the last from me,
but I desired to turn you out
one last time
before assuming the duties
of my new assignment.
There I'm sure we'll all be
double-shifting together again.
I hope not for a long time.
Item one, the shedding of crocodile tears
is strictly prohibited.
Hoist a shot or two if you must,
I'll look the other way,
but not when you're on duty.
Item two,
let us not forget in their bereavement
the loved ones of our departed fellows.
Look in on Grace once in a while,
my friends.
Item three...
remain my kind of cops.
Find something of worth in each person.
Something to care for in each situation.
Dress neatly, speak politely.
You have declared your faith in society.
Keep that faith.
It will keep you.
Item last,
though the Hill is generally
considered the wastebasket
of this city's law enforcement minions,
I have found its denizens
to be the fairest,
most courageous and hardworking
I've been privileged to know.
Gentlemen and ladies,
it has been a rare pleasure.
Now pick your butts up and let's roll.
And remember always,
let's be careful out there."
(chattering)
Man sure had a way with words.
He was saying goodbye.
Don't give it a review.
I'd like to see the numbnut
they bring in to replace him.
Whole day's gonna stink now.
-Nice friendly letter.
-Henry, homicide.
State Assembly Leader Randazzo.
-Killed somebody?
-Got killed.
-Where's Leo?
-(growls)
Here. I got bodily functions, too.
-What's this?
-MAN: It's a misunderstanding.
-I was going to the pawnshop.
-At 6:00 in the morning.
Who's got a warped sense of humor?
Leo, it's just evidence.
It came in with the perp.
Is this humor?
-Is this a general butt of jokes?
-Leo.
Okay, my wife's cheating on me, all right?
She's seeing a computer software man!
There! Is everyone happy?
My wife is stepping out!
(chuckles)
Leo the cuckold! Leo the fool!
WOMAN (on radio):
Dispatch, we have a 9-11.
Armed robbery in progress.
See Surplus Store,
corner People's Drive and 124th street.
(sirens wailing)
(theme music playing)
(sirens blaring)
Ah, Lieutenant.
-Heavyweight.
-Assembly Leader Randazzo.
Yeah, the gun's registered to him.
She says it discharged during a struggle.
Don't they all? There's half a gram
of coke, some pills.
Nobody else was around. She made the call.
Let's try to hold the press off, okay?
I don't think this one stays quiet,
Lieutenant.
Maybe we buy an hour. What's her name?
Whitney Barnes. Not Tiffany.
-Not Kimberly.
-Got it.
Lieutenant Goldblume, Ms. Barnes.
The other guy already gave me my warnings.
-This was an accident?
-Yes.
I was struggling to get the gun
to protect myself
and the-the dope is his.
-Whose townhouse is this?
-A friend of mine.
-Name?
-Lester.
-(bag zipping)
-Lester who?
Uh, Menley. Lester Menley.
He's my business manager.
We'd like to get a statement from you
at the stationhouse.
-Okay.
-MAN: Lieutenant.
-Yes.
-Video camera.
-What?
We found it behind a two-way mirror
in the bedroom.
Blackmail, Whitney?
I didn't know anything
about that, I swear.
I'm not a blackmailer, Lieutenant.
I'm not a killer.
Okay. We better go.
Frank, your messages.
Mrs. Spencer
at Woolman's Brother's Mortuary
has called three times.
She has to know what you plan to do
with the cremains.
-Cremains?
-Uh-huh.
-I'll give her a call.
-All right.
-Lieutenant Calletino?
-Calletano, yes.
Right, don't look up.
Just go about your business.
Al Desjardins, general accounting.
-So?
-We have a problem here, Lieutenant.
Office supply appropriations
for this precinct
off the board relative
to department median.
The computer flagged it,
and so I correlated some invoices.
Legal pads, 36 percent over.
Ballpoint pens, 25 percent over.
-Three-ring binders, 18 percent--
-Why are you telling me this?
We've got a petty thief
up here, Lieutenant.
The computer kicked you out
as authorizing requisitioner.
-Are you suggesting--
-There isn't a faintest shadow
of a suspicion about you, Lieutenant.
I just wanted to let you
know that I'm on the job
and will bring this culprit to ground.
-This is what you do?
-My cover is computer repair.
I want you to not even
notice that I'm here, hm.
-I'll manage.
-Thank you.
Sorry I'm late, Sandy.
You been waiting long?
-Not too bad.
-Look, did the DA talk to you yet?
No, about what?
-Ms. Valpariso?
-Morning.
Do you understand the purpose
of this hearing thing?
I know what kind of questions to expect.
I can handle it.
The hearing is to determine charges.
There are two ways we can take your case.
I'll be very straight with you about each.
You tell me which way you want to go.
-Okay.
-All right, first we can charge rape.
My sense is that given the factual setting
our chances for conviction
are no better than 50-50.
-No signs of struggle. No recovered--
-Right, no cuts or bruises.
Fortunately.
No recovered weapon.
Prior acquaintance with the accused.
I don't know him.
We once worked in the same place.
Which, however tenuous
and ultimately irrelevant,
makes rape a tougher sell.
The second alternative, he has a history
of robberies and break-ins.
We can get him to plead on that
and put him away for sure.
For sure?
He spent one night in jail
after his last robbery.
And then he was out and he raped me.
Hey, that won't happen again.
He goes for three years
or we do not make a deal.
And if we go to trial on the rape?
-And win? Five to seven years.
-(sighs)
-He's back out on the street in three max.
-(scoffs)
So those are the choices?
Those are the choices.
I recommend we try
for a robbery conviction.
But you tell me which way you want to go.
JOYCE: At this time my client changes
his previously entered plea
of not guilty to guilty
on the robbery only
to cover all counts.
Is that plea acceptable, Ms. Kennedy?
It is, Your Honor,
with the further stipulation
that Mr. Villa receive a minimum
three-year sentence.
Ms. Valpariso,
do you understand these proceedings?
-Yes.
-Do you have an objection?
No.
Your Honor,
could I just say something for the record?
JUDGE: Go ahead.
All of the detectives and Ms. Kennedy,
they've all been very good to me.
And fair.
And I know that this makes sense.
But I'm just sick at heart, Your Honor.
That when this man attacked me,
I did exactly what everyone said to do.
I submitted, Your Honor,
when this man had a knife.
And because I did that...
(scoffs)
Never mind. It's okay.
I just want it to be done.
So you called her?
Yeah, before she went
to court this morning.
-And?
-I'm gonna see her tonight.
-Okay, I told you.
-It doesn't mean we made up.
Right. You know, Sandy right now
is going through as tough
a thing as any woman
-ever has to go through in her life.
-I know. I know.
But it hasn't been a tea party
for me, either.
Okay.
This may not be the best time, but I...
I got to tell you this.
You know they lifted
the freeze on promotions?
-I got my sergeant's promotion.
-No kidding? That's great!
They're gonna announce it tomorrow.
Boy, that--
Hey, I'm really happy for you, Luce.
You can't say anything to anybody
-'cause it's not official yet.
-No, I won't.
I wanted to tell you before,
you know, everybody knows.
(laughs)
-Have they given you an assignment yet?
-Yeah, the Hill.
The captain wants me
to be roll call sergeant.
No kidding?
Somebody's got to do the job, Joe.
Well, that's great. That's great.
Congratulations.
Yeah, right. Right.
No, I mean it.
Oh, yeah. You really think that.
Luce, don't tell me
what I think, all right?
Okay, fine, Joe.
Then just forget it.
Forget I ever said anything.
-Just forget it totally!
-I hate that!
Sandy did that to me yesterday.
You know, it's not enough
to say the right thing.
Your thought has to be 100 percent right
or else you're a bum.
Well, I'll tell you the truth, Luce.
I'm glad you got your promotion,
but I don't like you
taking over for the sarge
and I hate losing you as my partner.
-I'm sorry.
-Yeah, me, too.
I really need you
to be my friend right now.
I could use a friend now, too.
It's a blast if you'll just give
everything up.
Don't you see? Oneness.
Hey, you people,
turn around and listen to me.
If you look at the universe
and you drop all those tape recorders
and those expensive loafers
and New York steak
and lobster material crap,
you're gonna see there's only
one side to everything.
Oneness! One!
You see, it ain't control
over the external world
that the human spirit is screaming for
as much as it is
getting the heck away from it all.
And I'm talking nirvana
through contemplation.
And that's thinking.
Nothing but pure thinking.
Life is a-- is a blast
if you'll just give everything up.
Don't you see?
Life is a waterdrop on a lotus leaf.
You can't get more explicit than that.
Hey, you guys. Not so fast.
I want to clue you in
to the other side of oneness.
You listening?
Get fat off of the love of man,
but starve on the love of money.
You hear me?
Hey, friend, take you and your oneness
and hit the road, will you?
We're trying to watch the dancing here.
Corruptions of the flesh, man.
Now, we all got to abstain from sex.
-Forget enjoyment--
-Shut up, pajama breath.
Hey, I'm begging you now.
You listen to me.
You listen to the oneness of love.
-(growls)
-Love is all powerful.
You gonna be stupid
and dispute me on that?
Yeah.
Your contempt is but a shallow pool.
-And so's your mother.
-That's enough.
And I'm gonna melt your heart.
(screams)
(siren blaring)
Get your stinking hands off me!
I'm a man of God!
And I'm a cop. You're under arrest.
I warn you. I'm gonna fast till death!
I'm gonna refuse all food and water!
-(radio chatter)
-RENKO: Is it this floor, ma'am?
Mm-mm. Next. They've been jumping
and throwing things about
for half an hour.
Poor man lives alone up there.
Ma'am, I don't blame you.
I don't blame you
for being upset about it.
If I was all alone like you
and heard this sort of thing going on.
I just want you to know we got here
as fast as we could.
Hey! Hold it, boy.
I want you to stay right there.
-Paco!
-Ah!
-(shouts)
-Hey, come back here!
Hey, hold it! Hold it!
(shouting)
-Hey!
-(screams)
Hey, hold it! Hey, come back here.
Get off me, man! Get off me, pig!
(grunting)
-Get off, man! Get off!
-Oh, Mr. Anderson.
-They look familiar?
-Yeah, the Diablo twins.
(speaking Spanish)
-(screams) He's dead! He's dead!
-(overlapping chatter)
You killed him, you animals!
HENRY: The warrant
specifies video tapes, J.D.
Anyplace on premises they might be stored.
Pimp's the lessee. Name's Lester Menley.
-Let's see if we can't find him, too.
-Randazzo killing?
They're gonna sell some newspapers
on this one, Frank,
Assemblyman, love nest, nose candy.
Her.
-Did she kill him?
-I don't think so.
-I mean, I think it was self-defense.
-We get a statement?
I'd like to interrogate her alone.
She seems to trust me.
Had a couple minutes with her
at the scene.
WHITNEY: I'd give the money to Lester.
He'd take out expenses and give me half.
-With a regular like, like this--
-Assemblyman Randazzo?
Mm-hmm.
That would be 500 for two hours.
It's a knack helping busy people relax,
you know?
Maybe there'd be something special
that they'd like.
In Randazzo's case, guns.
He got off on guns.
By pointing them at you?
Once he even shot at a lamp
just to prove to me that it was loaded.
But it wasn't supposed to be loaded ever.
But he'd get loaded.
So after he shot the lamp out,
I told him that he couldn't come back.
But then he... he got better for a while.
Who needs real guns?
Enough guys get off on water pistols.
What?
You like that?
-You like water pistols?
-Me?
No.
I don't like guns of any kind.
-Look, Whitney--
-This is the entire truth.
The guy was wrecked.
He told me the gun was loaded.
So I said then we weren't doing anything.
Then there was a financial adjustment.
So I reconsidered my position.
After which he really went nuts.
He started poking me with the gun.
And I tried to walk away.
But he-he just kept poking me with it.
So I pushed it.
And then he-he pointed it...
at my face.
Started screaming at me.
I tried to get it away from him and...
it went off.
Look, Whitney.
Lester's machine wasn't plugged in,
but if there were tapes of other nights,
they'd show Randazzo playing with his gun.
-Right?
-Yes.
If there are tapes,
they're gonna help you, Whitney.
They're gonna support your story.
He had a closet downstairs.
He kept some trunks and things.
Excuse me.
Officer, Michael Shapiro
representing Ms. Barnes.
You didn't talk this guy's ear off,
did you, kiddo?
-Why not?
-We're investigating every aspect
of your client's self-defense claim,
Mr. Shapiro.
I'll try to keep Whitney
informed of development.
-Thank you, Lieutenant.
-Excuse me.
MAN: You got your four basic forces
in the universe.
Your weak force, your strong force,
electromagnetism and gravity.
So what do you think
those-those atheist eggheads
that are living off the government
are trying to do?
They're trying to combine it all
into one all-powerful super force.
One basic premise of the whole flipping
scheme of things.
Now that's God. That's oneness.
Not twoness or threeness.
-Oneness.
-Last name?
Gandhi.
-Is that with an H?
-Yeah.
You know what happens to your soul
when you croak, smart guy?
-You could come back here as an animal.
-I like animals.
-First name?
-Dave.
How about a rat that eats garbage
out of the sewer?
You don't know anybody's
gonna come back as a rat.
There you go again disputing me.
Disputing holy Vishnu.
-Don't get him started, would you, Archie?
-I got a right to my opinion.
Disharmony.
That's all I see in the world.
Disharmony and wise guys.
You have everything there is, Chief.
He's dead. There was gunplay.
Whitney Barnes, yeah.
Well, that depends on what the tape shows.
There's a hidden camera in the apartment.
Wasn't on for the main performance,
but the other nights
may support her story.
I don't know who else. I don't know.
Damn it, Chief, I don't know!
When I know, you'll know.
You'll have to excuse me, now.
-Hold it.
-Hey, sailor.
You want to see some pictures?
-Squad room holding.
-Are those the tapes?
We're gonna go through them, Whitney,
see if they corroborate.
-Can you give us a guess on time?
-Hard to say.
Upstairs... [mutters]
I don't know what kind of tapes you got,
but I got a couple different machines
set up and ready to go.
-Way to go, Lieutenant.
-Excuse me. Move, move, move!
Come on, move, move.
-Don't rush me.
-Just shut up.
(clamoring)
What did they do?
-Homicide, Captain.
-Kiss your mama, man.
-Get me Bernstein.
-(speaking in Spanish)
-Did you bring these two in yesterday?
-Yes, I did.
-And they robbed someone else today?
-And they killed him.
-Take it easy.
-All right, man. Chill out.
-(speaking Spanish)
-What? What?
Hey, don't talk to loud. I can't hear you.
-Talk English. We're in America now.
-Shut up!
Frank, my office said you called.
What do you know about the legalities
of spreading ashes on public property?
-Ashes?
-Phil's remains.
He asked that they be scattered
over the Hill
and evidently that's illegal.
Private property
only with the owner's consent.
-Except for the ocean.
-I know.
Mortuary's been pushing that one.
They won't release the ashes to me
unless I can give them a legal destination
for the permit.
A vase on our coffee table?
How was your day?
Ask me once I see the Rodriguez brothers.
Looking nice, Counselor. Yo, Frankie.
No attitude, Jesus.
I'll wipe it right off your face.
The Rodriguez brothers did a murder.
-I heard, I'm sorry.
-And I hold you accountable.
I take account for what I do--
-You dealt for them yesterday.
-And?
-And today they committed a murder.
-That's separate business.
That makes you the head of nothing.
Are you implying I'm responsible
for this murder?
You won't do time for it, but yes.
What about you?
We did this business together, Furillo.
-Are you responsible?
-Yes.
Take it easy, Frankie.
Frank, Frank, Leo was bringing
the Diablos up, they jumped him.
Come on.
-You pigs better move! Come on!
-Put those guns down!
-You see this?
-No one has to get hurt, son.
-Now just let him go.
-You come closer, he gets it in the eye!
You're not getting out of here.
-Let him go.
-Back off, I'll kill him, man!
I said back off or he gets it
through his head, man.
I mean it!
We can wait them out, Frank.
-Let him go.
-Jesus, what are you talking about, man?
Hey, don't talk to those pigs!
Come here, talk to me, man.
(speaking Spanish)
-Help us, man.
-Just let him go now.
Hey, man, but he could
get us out of here, man.
If they try to stop us, I'll kill him!
-(speaks in Spanish)
-Don't be stupid!
You're juveniles.
You're looking at three years max
for that old man.
Now let him go now.
(speaking Spanish)
-Paco, listen to him.
-Shut up!
He's supposed to help us, man!
Get out of here! We don't need you!
-Traitor!
-I'm giving you life!
You hurt that man,
they ain't gonna let you live.
Now let him go, now!
-Paco.
-Now.
-Paco!
-All right, get out of here, man!
-And you're supposed to help us, man!
-HOWARD: Holding, upstairs!
Get those cuffs back on them.
-And you, too, little brother!
-I didn't do anything.
I want special circumstances
for the Rodriguez brothers.
I want them treated as adults.
-It's not in policy guidelines--
-To hell with policy guidelines.
They committed murder
and took an officer hostage.
Which, let's face it,
has nothing to do with your demands.
You're angry phone calls to my office.
Your rage right now.
You're unreasonableness
about this whole damn case.
Now, look, I know you made that deal
for the truck hijackers with Martinez.
Believe me, we are not
gonna let them off easy.
If it's any consolation to you,
Michigan Avenue
just started packing
its overflow off to juvie.
Want to punish these kids like adults?
Believe me, at juvie,
they are gonna get treated like adults.
-Where's the Whitney Barnes meeting?
-Check at the desk.
Captain, we've gone through
most of those tapes.
-And?
-Well, she's on them a bunch of times
with that state assemblyman.
-Pretty crazy dude.
-Do the tapes support her story?
-Oh, yeah. Heavy into gunplay.
-All right, let ADA Bernstein know.
Tell you something, Captain, this Whitney,
she was working out
with some heavy-duty citizens.
-Anyone pertaining to this case?
-Not yet.
Still got some tapes
to go through, though.
All right, let me know
as soon as you finish.
Right, Captain.
Phone slip out of your hand, Frank?
Sorry, Chief, rough day.
I understand those kids
you sprung croaked a guy.
I didn't spring anybody. I made a deal
for information with a citizen.
You've got to run a precinct up here.
I understand that.
This Whitney Barnes woman.
What about her?
I need to look at those tapes you seized.
-Why?
-Why, Frank?
Because I've just gotten off the phone
with some people in Washington
who requested that I do so
because security questions
are involved here
that have to be acknowledged
and dealt with.
Now that I've troubled explaining myself
to a subordinate,
I'd like you to set up a damn room
so I can see the damn films.
LaRue and Washington
are running them upstairs.
You're kidding me.
Tell me.
They say the tapes
tend to support her statement.
What have had they said about
who's on those films?
Some prominent citizens.
I didn't ask names.
-Given the tapes tend to exculpate--
-That means they clear you.
The only charge we'd contemplate
would be involuntary manslaughter.
Some questions
remain as to traces of cocaine
and barbiturates found on premises.
-Ownership of which we deny.
-Understood.
I'm establishing bail considerations.
Assuming she can make it,
my inclination is to go
for 30,000 bond,
ten percent cash alternative.
Acceptable.
I haven't got $3,000, Mike.
Shapiro provides.
We've got opening bids of 25,000
for the love nest story,
and 32 for your life.
Mr. Desjardins.
I'm taking this straight to your captain.
-What's going on?
-I caught him stealing envelopes.
-That's not true, Captain.
-Who in the hell is he?
This man is from
general accounting, Frank.
He's-he's investigating
missing office supplies.
I found over $20 worth of envelopes
in his locker.
My office.
It's true, Captain. I was stealing.
I estimate you've been losing
about $15 a day in pilfered material.
-Mister...?
-Desjardins.
-Desjardin.
-Mr. Desjardin.
Looks as if you've done a fine piece
of detective work here.
-I'll communicate same to your office.
-All in a day's work, sir.
With your permission, I'd like to handle
discipline internally.
No. Termination
has always been the policy--
I'm well aware of policy, Mr. Desjardin.
Still, I'd ask you
to let us handle it from in here.
He's your man.
I appreciate it.
Well, you'll want the evidence.
-Of course, I will report my findings.
-Of course.
-You'll excuse us, Ray.
-Certainly, Frank.
Tell me why, Leo.
My wife has a home seed business.
You know, flowers, vegetables.
-I wanted to help her out.
-How long?
A couple of months.
About the time
your wife started going out nights?
Okay, the borrowing of office supplies
stops right now.
There'll be no more mention of it,
but if there's a recurrence,
I'm gonna have to let you go.
How are things at home now?
I don't know.
But I'm working on it, Captain.
I'm... I'm taking care of it.
What about professional help?
Captain, the only place I need
professional help is here.
I'm supposed to be in charge
of lockup and transport.
I wind up being a nurse,
a babysitter, a lunch wagon.
Today, I almost get killed
for my troubles, in case nobody noticed.
All right, take the rest of the day.
We'll talk about it tomorrow.
Yes, sir.
Thank you, sir.
JUDGE: Transferred to family court
per the people's motion.
(chuckles)
Defendants to be transferred
to juvenile hall.
-(bangs gavel)
-Next case.
BAILIFF: Ninety-four on the calendar.
Charged with assault, harassment...
I understand your attorney
is cutting a 40k deal with The Trib.
I don't know. I'm not sure.
Whitney Barnes' story is pretty hot stuff.
Sexposé of the year.
Look, I'm in jail and I'm broke.
Just seems like...
putting it in the paper just seems like
selling yourself all over again.
What else have I got to sell, Lieutenant?
I'm not saying what I mean.
What do you mean to say?
Just...
(chuckles)
You seem like a nice person,
and I'm sorry you're in this trouble.
I should get out on bail tonight.
That's not what I mean, either.
My mistake.
BAILIFF: Calendar number 95,
Whitney Barnes.
Charge is involuntary manslaughter.
Bail agreement between defense
and the DA has been arranged.
(bangs gavel)
Am I correct,
we're agreed on $30,000 bond,
3,000 cash alternative
which has just been posted?
-Is that correct, Mr. Shapiro?
-It's correct, Judge.
-BERNSTEIN: That's right, Your Honor.
-We're running behind.
Without further ado, people.
March 14th, Superior Part 42,
for plea and probation report.
I'm, uh, fully cognizant
this is a, uh, racy case,
which is exactly what this overworked
court doesn't need right now,
so any questions, interviews, etcetera,
will be conducted outside.
-(bangs gavel)
-JUDGE: Next case.
(reporters clamoring)
Station managers should contact me
by 6:00 p.m. with their bids
for Ms. Barnes' exclusive love nest story.
Can you give us some idea
of the names involved?
Right now we anticipate
a 16-segment serial
featuring a different
well-known individual.
Don't you also anticipate libel suit?
I can assure you
that all of Ms. Barnes' claims
will be graphically substantiated.
-Are you saying that you have pictures?
-Video tape.
-Free enterprise, ain't it grand?
-(clamoring)
FRANK: I'm aware of the legalities.
Isn't there a special permit?
I'm sure burial at sea would be very nice,
even popular,
but that's not what he wanted.
I'm not bereaved. Right. Okay. Mm-hm.
Your inventory
isn't going to square, Frank.
-You're gonna be two tapes short.
-Why is that?
Because I removed them.
Look, if they're as sensitive as you say,
why haven't I heard from the FBI
-or some security agency?
-You heard it from me.
Chief, I have to account
for all evidence seized.
Then redo the paperwork, damn it.
Frank, a few months ago Howard Hunter
showed up on some bribery tapes.
-You remember that?
-Yes.
Remember asking me to spare him
an IAD hearing?
-To understand the circumstances?
-Sure.
I'm asking you for similar relief.
I slept with this girl, Frank.
Cora and I weren't getting along.
Anyway, I slept with her twice.
Those are the tapes I'm taking.
I hear Whitney is selling
her bedroom secrets to the media.
Frank, just let me keep these two tapes.
-I'll take my chances with the rest.
-You think she won't mention you?
This girl is on tape
with dozens of serious people, Frank.
She threatens to go public,
I wouldn't sell her any life insurance,
would you?
I'm gonna take silence as consent.
Embarrassment aside, Frank,
it's really something seeing yourself
perform like that.
(door closes)
Detective.
-Captain.
-History, Detective.
Retired first of the month.
Security consultant.
Private, corporate. Whatever.
My own firm.
Just wanted to say if you ever hit
the first of the month,
around the 24th give me a call.
I'll find you some work, okay?
You know, uh...
things will probably loosen up
around here moonlighting-wise
now that Phil Esterhaus is gone.
Don't mention his name!
Ever! His name in your mouth
sounds like garbage.
I won't stand for it!
Mick, wait for me downstairs, would you?
He's a mutt, Frank.
-Belongs in a kennel at best.
-What do you want, Jerry?
I just came up to express
my personal condolences
and, uh, wanted you to know
I'm in security now.
Good.
-Good luck, Jerry. If you'll excuse me.
-Frank.
I heard they're returning
vice to the precinct.
I know you don't respect me right now,
but I promise you one of these days
you'll understand how it is.
Vice isn't about right or wrong, Frank.
It's about weakness.
And everybody is weak somewhere.
What happens is someone you know,
maybe even someone you love,
is gonna step in brown applesauce.
And they're gonna beg you, beg you,
to look the other way
while they wipe their shoe.
And you realize no one's gonna get hurt
if you just turn your back this one time.
So you do it.
And that's how it starts.
And it will wind up...
it will wind up--
You just try to bend a little
and it will wind up...
You don't know if you're on foot
or on horseback or what.
Things wind up so confused.
I hope the new business goes well, Jerry.
Hope it goes well for you.
You don't have to say anything. I know.
You need a little time off, Mick?
(exhales)
No.
I'll be okay.
I miss him, too.
I don't want you to misunderstand
what I'm gonna say, Captain.
'Cause you're a good boss.
The best I ever had.
But Esterhaus was the law up here.
And now that he's dead...
I don't know.
I'm scared.
I feel like everything's gonna unravel.
It's your job and mine
to see that it doesn't.
Okay.
I'll try.
(siren blaring)
Joe.
Look at me.
Please.
Che fa? What's your problem?
What's you's?
I don't have a problem.
No?
No.
It's not what your body's saying.
(sighs) Man...
Look, maybe it's just too fast.
We don't have to if you don't want to.
Sandy, look,
you're gonna make me crazy, all right?
Just don't tell me
what I want and don't want.
Okay. Then why don't you tell me
what you want?
I don't know.
You want to go home?
Maybe I should.
Joe, why can't you just hold me?
Help me get over this.
Make sex okay for me again.
Sandy, I'm sorry for you.
And I feel your pain and your anger.
And I want to kill the bastard.
And I'd do anything in the world,
anything to undo what happened.
But it also turns me off.
Why? 'Cause I'm dirty now?
No, I don't think that.
I've had these strong feelings
of wanting to make love to you.
You're the first woman I've ever thought
about having it all with.
And now I can't.
-It happens to everybody--
-It never happened to me.
Look, I know you need me right now,
and I hate myself
because I can't give you what you need.
And I know I'm not supposed
to feel that way
and that makes me feel guilty, too.
I just don't know
who the hell I am right now.
I don't know what I feel.
Go.
Just go.
She's fairly bright.
She's, I'd day, unusually beautiful.
And the strange thing is,
given what she does,
she doesn't even seem to be too cynical.
There's this appealing sort of naiveté.
I mean, I know she's not--
Good God, all you have to do is look
at one of those tapes for five minute.
Did you?
Well, yes.
All in the line of duty?
Fay, she's not anyone to be jealous of.
(scoffs)
For the last half hour,
you've been telling me
that she's intelligent, gorgeous,
emotionally accessible,
an incredible sexual athlete.
How could I not be jealous?
Fay, she's a prostitute.
Which is part of what attracts you.
Interests me.
Oh, excuse me. Interests you.
-On a purely clinical level.
-Give me a break, will you?
She's no threat to us,
if that's what's worrying you.
Tell me that you
wouldn't like to sleep with her.
Tell me that you haven't imagined
in your mind's eye
her doing to you all the things
she did to those other men on those tapes.
So, what, is it a felony to fantasize?
It's not even a misdemeanor, Henry.
Not to think them or to do them.
-Meaning?
-(sighs)
Meaning nothing.
Come on, what?
Meaning I wouldn't mind
a little sexual adventuring of my own.
It's taken me a lot of years to feel okay
about that part of myself.
I'd like to take advantage of it
before it's too late.
Fay, I have no interests
in being a sexual Superman.
I'm not talking about that.
But as long as we're on the subject,
what I'm talking about is...
we have friendly, comfortable sex.
I'd like a little passion
to go along with it.
That's a two-way street.
The difference is that you'd like it
with your hooker friend
and I'd like it with you.
I'm sorry, Henry.
It's okay. Don't be.
Why do you have to be
so damn nice all the time?
Henry, we have to talk.
I care too much about you
to let things get--
-Don't be a hero, Max, or you're dead.
-Okay.
-Okay, whatever you say.
-Your wallet.
All right. Now, lady, your purse.
Is that a zucchini you have
in your pocket
or are you just glad to see me?
-What?
-Who you trying to kid, mister?
What do you think,
we just fell off the vegetable truck?
This is a cop. He has a real gun.
-Fay!
-(gasps) He's got a real gun.
Okay, now both of you
get down on the ground.
I will not. It's filthy.
Let's not make this any worse
than it is, okay?
Okay.
You move, either of you, you're dead.
-Henry, he's got my purse!
-The hell with your purse.
-(laughs) Oh, God.
-I fail to see the humor here.
"Is that a zucchini in your pocket
or are you glad to see me?"
-Well...
-Oh, boy.
REPORTER: In another tragic incident
related to ongoing efforts
at alleviating jail overcrowding,
two members of the Diablos youth gang
were slain earlier tonight
in juvenile hall,
apparently, after one of them
was sexually assaulted
by a group of adult prisoners
transferred today from Michigan Avenue.
Identities of the attackers
have not been released,
but the murdered inmates are said to be
Francisco Rodriguez, age 16,
and his brother Hernando, 15,
stabbed repeatedly as he attempted
to come to his brother's aid.
In a strongly worded
statement to the press,
Mayor Cleveland urged the state
to continue its efforts...
(sighs)
I know.
(phone rings)
Go ahead.
Maybe it's a singing telegram.
Yeah, Furillo.
Yeah.
Okay.
Whitney Barnes.
(radio chatter)
She was whacked. Very professional.
One shot in the side of the head.
Rental car.
-Anything at all from SID?
-No sign of a struggle.
My guess is she thought
she was out with a john.
I liked her.
She was an interesting woman.
(closing theme playing)